---
author: Bryan J. Ross
title: When it comes to art, less is always more
excerpt:
layout: post
category: general
comments: true
tags: [ ]
---
The other day I came across a video snippet of some Star Wars themed video game
where the characters were dancing.

Star Wars characters. Dancing.

What. The. Fuck.

<!-- more -->

It actually made me feel embarrassed. I couldn’t believe that Star Wars, a
staple of my youth – indeed, very much a part of who I was – was relegated to
some cheap choreographed video game developed solely to market some new piece of
hardware.

Needless to say, I was pretty pissed. My mind was racing. And then something
flashed through my mind. A t-shirt, with a silhouette of Vader on it, in some
Saturday Night Fever-esque pose under a disco ball. I thought that t-shirt would
be pretty sweet.

That brought me up short. What the holy hell? Why did I find the video game
offensive yet the t-shirt idea awesome? The ideas were fairly similar in
concept. There had to be a reason. I’m usually not that arbitrary.

I realized that it’s the same reason I couldn’t stand the prequels. The same
reason why I hated Prometheus, and most movies that come out these days: they
don’t leave anything to the imagination. It’s the same reason why songs with
simple chord changes and choruses are so popular.

The audience of any art form likes to participate. They like to be a part of the
experience, to contribute. In music, it’s with the only instrument many people
have available: their voice. So how do you make it easy for somebody to
contribute with their voice? Make the chorus memorable. Make it easy to sing.

Back to the t-shirt vs game thing, I realized it’s because that one still image
did something that the video game couldn’t: *It sparked my imagination.*

This applies to any medium. Painting, movies, music, design. You name it. Just
enough to communicate, but little enough to allow your audience to become part
of the experience.

Don’t beat them over the head with it.
